(upbeat music)
All right, now let's work on getting
the actual data being looped in,
and we need to amend our GraphQL query
just to get a little bit more data that we're looking for,
so pop open your index.js page,
and scroll around until you find
the actual query that we have, which is, where did it go?
Oh, you know what?
It's not, it's in useLatestData.
That's where the GraphQL query lives.
Okay, so I told you that I would show you
a trick to get this working,
because this is just a string,
which it is, at the end of the day,
but you know that if you put gql in front of it,
then Gatsby, or no, not Gatsby,
VS Code will think that it is
actually a tagged GraphQL query,
and then when you save it,
it will do all of your formatting and everything for you.
It'll also give you your syntax highlighting,
so you can very quickly see if you've made a mistake.
You can see what the syntax highlights, so that's awesome.
The problem is that we're not actually importing
a GraphQL library into our front end, and I'd rather not.
We don't need an entire GraphQL library.
It's just a string at the end of the day,
but we can fake out.
We can fake out VS Code by doing a little trick.
So, I tweeted this a while ago.
If you want auto-formatting for VS Code,
just make this fake gql function
that takes in all the parts and all the pieces,
like if you've never used a tag template literal,
I've got a blog post on it,
but basically, take in all the parts
and pieces and then join them back together,
and this will give you fake,
and then somebody replied,
"You can just use String.raw,
and that will do the same thing."
I think in most cases, there's probably some edge cases,
but in our case, this will work just great,
so what we can do is you see
how it's like gql is not defined.
We can go up here, and make a fake tag.
Let's say const gql is equal to capital S, String.raw,
and that will just use a raw string,
but it will fake out our VS Code for thinking it's GraphQL,
and it will highlight it as such, so big fan of that.
I think you can also use that for CSS.
Yeah, and a couple others,
so if you ever need syntax highlighting
without actually importing a library,
you can use String.raw.
All right, next, we need to modify this query here
to grab everything that we need.
So, we'll go to our Slicemasters first,
and for each of the Slicemasters,
we will take the name, the _id,
and then we also want the image of the person.
Now, this is not going to be using gatsby-image,
because we're sort of outside of gatsby-image right now,
so I'm gonna show you how to use it.
You can use the different parts of this just on your own.
I'm sure you could query all the different parts
that you want from gatsby-image,
but there sometimes is a use case
where you just wanna grab the parts yourself,
and use a regular image tag, so for the image,
we want the asset, and in the asset,
we want the URL of the asset, and we also want the metadata,
and then there's this thing called LQIP.
I'm not actually sure what that stands for.
Let's look it up.
Low Quality Image Placeholder.
That's the fuzzy version.
That's the low-quality image that will show in place
while we download the larger image.
So, we need the full URL,
as well as the Low Quality Image Placeholder.
Then we'll go down to our hotSlices here.
We'll grab the name, we'll grab the ID.
We want the image, the asset, URL,
and we also want the metadata
with the Low Quality Image Placeholder.
Let's get back to our browser here, and let's take a look.
It says cannot access property StoreSettings,
res.data is undefined.
So, that happens when something goes wrong
with our Fetch request, and we didn't actually,
if we open up our dev tools here,
there's not really any good thing going on here,
so we didn't catch our error.
We can go back to where we have our useLatestData,
and we'll say then, then, then,
and the way we can see that is
we can catch the error right here,
and we can just console.log the error,
maybe a console.log SHOOOOOT,
just to see what's going on here.
Now, when you refresh this, here we go.
Cannot access property Store Setting, res.data is undefined.
Gives us our stack trace, and Webpack.
That actually didn't give us any good information.
Okay, so next, what I'll do is I'll go into my Network tab,
and we'll take a look at the request.
There it is, POST, and we'll look at the response.
There we go, field url must not have a selection,
since type of string has no subfields.
Did we put?
Ah, I see, it's url, and then the sibling is metadata.
Here, we did url with a sub,
so let's just grab that, and replace that.
I bet that will fix it for us.
There we go, there's our data coming in,
and if we open it up,
you'll see that we've got the image to the person,
and as well as we have a Base64 version of that.
One more thing here is that we just typed
the same thing twice,
name, _id, image, asset, url, metadata, and lqip.
One thing we can do is swap that out for a fragment.
So, go above your query, and we'll just say, fragment.
We'll call it deets, and open that up,
and we'll take all the data
about the slicemaster and the hotSlices,
so name, all the way through that,
and swap it out with ...deets.
I'll put that in here,
and then we'll do the same thing
for this, ...deets,
and then we'll refresh the page,
and didn't work.
Let's go to our Network.
Take a look here.
Expected on, found, oh, when you make a fragment,
you have to tell it what type it is on,
so we'll say fragment deets on, I think it's StoreSettings.
Cannot spread as an object on type of Person can never be,
Oh, no, no, no.
It is on Person,
but then we also need it on Store,
so how do you do a fragment on multiple types in GraphQL?
That's actually something I don't know.
Let's let's figure this out.
So, we'll search GraphQL fragment, multiple types.
Oh, just a comma, (laughs) that's easy.
So, fragment deets on Person,
and what was the other type that we had?
Slice, Pizza, that is the two types.
Now, let's see.
Expected curly bracket.
Oh, fragments are only, GraphQL,
they can't be used inside your schema.
GraphQL does not support type inheritance,
or anything like that.
Oh, it looks like you can't do that.
I obviously was reading the question, not the answer.
So, what someone is saying is
just stick it in a template string, and interpolate it,
so I like that actually,
so let's just take that,
and that away, and let's take a list
of all the fields that we want,
and we'll go right up here.
Let's say const deets is equal to backticks,
and paste it in there.
We can use our gql again to highlight it.
Actually, that's not gonna work,
'cause we need curly brackets,
so what I'll do is I'll just pop curly brackets
in there for just a second, and then I'll remove them.
Okay, then we can go here, where we have deets,
and replace that with the variable.
Is that gonna work?
There we go! Okay, good.
So, that, I don't know if that was worth it or not,
but now if we want to change what we're selecting
about both the pizzas and the people,
we can change it in one spot, 'cause it's just a variable.
We don't even have to put gql inside of there,
'cause it's not technically a full GraphQL string.
It is just a string that we're interpolating
into each of these queries here.
Okay, cool, now let's start looping
over the data and displaying it.
We'll go back to our index.js,
and let's start with the slicemasters,
and we'll go right below here.
We'll say if there is slicemasters,
and there is a length on them, then we will loop over them,
and we're gonna create a new component called an ItemGrid.
That's different than ItemsGrid.
That's our styles,
but this is gonna be singular ItemGrid,
and that takes in items, which is our slicemasters,
and then we'll just do the same thing
for our hotSlices down here,
but we'll replace slicemasters with hotSlices.
Then what we need to do
is make a new component called ItemGrid.
So go into our components folder, make a new file.
Capital I, Item, capital G, Grid.js.
Import React from react, and we'll export
default function ItemGrid,
ItemGrid, and then we'll destructure
the items that come in via properties,
and then from that, we will return our ItemsGrid,
so that is going to be,
are imported from our styles,
so we need to import
ItemsGrid from ../, go into our styles directory,
and into our Grids file.
Make sure you spell function right,
and then inside of here, we'll have four items.
Let's just put some dummy items in there,
just for a second, Hey.
Oh, this needs to be an S.
There we go.
ItemGrid is not defined.
Oh, I see here.
We need to import ItemGrid.
Now that we created it in this component,
we need to import it into our page here,
so I'm gonna go ahead and do that, boom.
Let's double-check at the top.
Looks like it's being imported. There we go.
Now we've got our four Hey, Hey, Hey, Heys showing up.
See, ba ba bum.
Now, once they actually load, we're showing up,
so we can go into our ItemGrid here
and remove those four, and we'll take our items.
We'll map over each one.
So, each item, and then we'll do,
I'm gonna do an implicit return here,
so smooth parentheses, and we need our ItemStyles.
That will need to be imported from our Grid, again.
Inside of there, we need a paragraph.
Inside of that, we'll have a span with a class of mark,
and we'll give ourselves the item.name.
Now, here we go.
We see loading, loading, loading,
and once it does load,
we get Slick, Piper, Enoch, and Waldo,
and then the three or four pizzas
that are showing up, so that's good.
Next, we'll give ourselves an image tag.
Source of the image, and I'm gonna ask you
to do backticks here,
and I'll show you why in just a second,
and then interpolate the item.image.asset.url.
Remember, that's the thing we queried.
Let's do the alt, before we forget.
Just item.name,
and boom, there it is.
See how long these are taking?
Oh, these are massive photos.
(trills tongue) This is like the 90s internet,
taking forever to download.
Poor Slick is not even downloaded at all,
and they're all different sizes, which is annoying.
So, this is a downside to not using gatsby-image,
is that it just gives us the raw actual image,
like I'll copy the image location, and paste it in here.
Boom, look how big that is, that's massive.
We can't be loading that sucker right into our website,
so luckily Sanity has image resizing
just via the URL, which is really cool,
so we don't have to worry too much about that.
So, if we go on the end here, and we pop a query string,
?w, so width, is equal to 500,
and height, oops,
and height, h, is equal to 400,
and fit is equal to crop.
Now you see that the different size images
are now being cropped in.
If I copy the image location now, you see we're getting
a much smaller image that's being popped in.
We'll go to this image here,
and give ourselves a width of 500 and a height of 400,
just so that we can maintain that aspect ratio.
Boom, and then the last thing we want to do is,
see, some of these images are still,
I'm on really slow internet here,
but you see that some of these images
are still taking a second to load,
so what we can do is we can show that LQIP,
Low Quality Image Placeholder while we do it,
and the way that we do that is we just say
background, oh, no, no, no, no.
It's not background, it's style,
and the way you can just inject styles in React
is you just provide an object
where the background is gonna be backticks, url,
and we'll interpolate
the item.image.asset.metadata.lqip.
Yeah, open this up, and you see, oh, (laughs) look at that.
There's like 1,000 of them showing up,
but you see that the background of these images
are this long Base64-encoded string,
which is kind of fuzzy,
and then what we can do is we can also say
backgroundSize is cover,
and it's not background-size.
Because this is JavaScript, you have to camel-case them,
and now when we refresh this page,
you'll see for a split second while it's downloading,
you see the fuzzy version of it,
which is a little bit nicer, just showing.
I guess a little issue is look at this.
Waldo's head, and then boop, he pops up,
but I don't know, whatever.
I think that that's totally fine.
Beautiful, looking really good.
Let's go back to our index.js page,
and put some titles above each of these.
So, above the slicemasters,
we'll give ourselves an h2 with a class of center,
and then inside of that,
a span with the class of mark and tilt.
I don't know if we did that tilt yet.
We'll take a look, and we'll just say Slicemasters On.
Boom, and then just copy that,
and go above your hotSlices,
and say Slicemasters On.
Beautiful, and we'll put
a little paragraph tag underneath it.
It says Standing by ready to slice you up.
Good, good, good, and a little paragraph
underneath this one, p.
Oh no, Slice you up would,
oh, that was wrong.
This is for slicemasters, so I'll just do that,
and then this one right here will be Hot Slices,
and we'll say
Come on by, by the slice.
Oh, we should say B-U-Y, like a little pun.
I like it.
Next thing is that little tilt class
I've put on a couple of things is not written yet.
I'm just gonna stick that in our GlobalStyles.
We'll go here, and just create it.
We'll just say .tilt, transform, translate,
rotate, oh no.
It's rotate, I don't know, two degrees, something like that.
I believe it has to be position relative as well.
It's not working, let's inspect it.
Oh, display block,
inline block, I like it.
I want that to be negative two degrees, though.
There we go, looking nice.
All right, a couple little minor CSS things.
These titles need to be brought up,
because I want them to overlap on top of it.
So, that is our paragraph tag,
and we are translating Y already negative 50%,
but that is not,
it seems like it needs to be
more like negative 140%, so let's go.
That is ItemStyles, I think.
Let's go into, where is that item?
See, if you don't know where something is in VS Code,
just go to where you use it,
so that would be in our ItemGrid.
This is ItemStyles,
and then just hold down your Command key and click on it,
or sorry, that's your Option key, and click on it,
and it will tell you where you actually wrote it,
and you can click through to it.
So, here we are, negative 140%.
That's looking good, and then look at this.
There we've got a bit of a forehead right here,
so we've gotta ask ourselves what's causing all of this,
and it is our nav.
It has a bunch of margin on it,
and if we take that off,
does that get in the way of other things?
No, let's open up our nav,
and I think we can just take that off temporarily,
see what's causing it.
There we go, that's looking a little bit better.
Go home, this is looking good!
Let's jump into the next video.